README.md, before:

msgpack-cli
===========

msgpack-cli is command line tool that converts data from JSON to [Msgpack](http://msgpack.org) and vice versa. Also allows calling RPC methods via [msgpack-rpc](https://github.com/msgpack-rpc/msgpack-rpc/blob/master/spec.md).

Installation
------------

    go get github.com/jakm/msgpack-cli

Usage
-----

    msgpack-cli

    Usage:
        msgpack-cli encode <input-file> [--out=<output-file>]
        msgpack-cli decode <input-file> [--out=<output-file>] [--pp]
        msgpack-cli rpc <host> <port> <method> [<params>|--file=<input-file>] [--pp] [--timeout=<timeout>]
        msgpack-cli -h | --help
        msgpack-cli --version

    Commands:
        encode               Encode data from input file to STDOUT
        decode               Decode data from input file to STDOUT
        rpc                  Call RPC method and write result to STDOUT

    Options:
        -h --help            Show this help message and exit
        --version            Show version
        --out=<output-file>  Write output data to file instead of STDOUT
        --file=<input-file>  File where parameters or RPC method are read from
        --pp                 Pretty-print - indent output JSON data
        --timeout=<timeout>  Timeout of RPC call [default: 30]

    Arguments:
        <input-file>         File where data are read from
        <host>               Server hostname
        <port>               Server port
        <method>             Name of RPC method
        <params>             Parameters of RPC method in JSON format

Examples
--------

Encoding/decoding:

    $ cat test.json
    {
      "firstName": "John",
      "lastName": "Smith",
      "isAlive": true,
      "age": 25,
      "height_cm": 167.6,
      "address": {
        "streetAddress": "21 2nd Street",
        "city": "New York",
        "state": "NY",
        "postalCode": "10021-3100"
      },
      "phoneNumbers": [
        {
          "type": "home",
          "number": "212 555-1234"
        },
        {
          "type": "office",
          "number": "646 555-4567"
        }
      ],
      "children": [],
      "spouse": null
    }
    $
    $ msgpack-cli encode test.json --out test.bin
    $
    $ ls -l test.* | awk '{print $9, $5}'
    test.bin 250
    test.json 429
    $
    $ msgpack-cli decode test.bin
    {"address":{"city":"New York","postalCode":"10021-3100","state":"NY","streetAddress":"21 2nd Street"},"age":25,"children":[],"firstName":"John","height_cm":167.6,"isAlive":true,"lastName":"Smith","phoneNumbers":[{"number":"212 555-1234","type":"home"},{"number":"646 555-4567","type":"office"}],"spouse":null}

RPC calling:

    $ # zero params
    $ msgpack-cli rpc localhost 8000 echo
    []
    $
    $ # single param
    $ msgpack-cli rpc localhost 8000 echo 3.159
    [3.159]
    $
    $ # multiple params (as json array)
    $ msgpack-cli rpc localhost 8000 echo '["abc", "def", "ghi", {"A": 65, "B": 66, "C": 67}]'
    ["abc","def","ghi",{"A":65,"B":66,"C":67}]

Commit message:

Fixed interoperability issue
JSON doesn't support integer type, all numbers are floats. Some
implementations (e.g. json module in Python) support decoding
of integers. Package 'encoding/json' decodes all numbers as float64
types, so big integers passed to application are converted to big
floats.

Fixed by explicit checking of number's string value and type switching
by hand. Conversion to int64 can be disabled by option
--disable-int64-conv.

README.md, after:

msgpack-cli
===========

msgpack-cli is command line tool that converts data from JSON to [Msgpack](http://msgpack.org) and vice versa. Also allows calling RPC methods via [msgpack-rpc](https://github.com/msgpack-rpc/msgpack-rpc/blob/master/spec.md).

Installation
------------

    go get github.com/jakm/msgpack-cli

Usage
-----

    msgpack-cli

    Usage:
        msgpack-cli encode <input-file> [--out=<output-file>] [--disable-int64-conv]
        msgpack-cli decode <input-file> [--out=<output-file>] [--pp]
        msgpack-cli rpc <host> <port> <method> [<params>|--file=<input-file>] [--pp]
            [--timeout=<timeout>][--disable-int64-conv]
        msgpack-cli -h | --help
        msgpack-cli --version

    Commands:
        encode                Encode data from input file to STDOUT
        decode                Decode data from input file to STDOUT
        rpc                   Call RPC method and write result to STDOUT

    Options:
        -h --help             Show this help message and exit
        --version             Show version
        --out=<output-file>   Write output data to file instead of STDOUT
        --file=<input-file>   File where parameters or RPC method are read from
        --pp                  Pretty-print - indent output JSON data
        --timeout=<timeout>   Timeout of RPC call [default: 30]
        --disable-int64-conv  Disable the default behaviour such that JSON numbers
                              are converted to float64 or int64 numbers by their
                              meaning, all result numbers will have float64 type


    Arguments:
        <input-file>          File where data are read from
        <host>                Server hostname
        <port>                Server port
        <method>              Name of RPC method
        <params>              Parameters of RPC method in JSON format

Examples
--------

Encoding/decoding:

    $ cat test.json
    {
      "firstName": "John",
      "lastName": "Smith",
      "isAlive": true,
      "age": 25,
      "height_cm": 167.6,
      "address": {
        "streetAddress": "21 2nd Street",
        "city": "New York",
        "state": "NY",
        "postalCode": "10021-3100"
      },
      "phoneNumbers": [
        {
          "type": "home",
          "number": "212 555-1234"
        },
        {
          "type": "office",
          "number": "646 555-4567"
        }
      ],
      "children": [],
      "spouse": null
    }
    $
    $ msgpack-cli encode test.json --out test.bin
    $
    $ ls -l test.* | awk '{print $9, $5}'
    test.bin 250
    test.json 429
    $
    $ msgpack-cli decode test.bin
    {"address":{"city":"New York","postalCode":"10021-3100","state":"NY","streetAddress":"21 2nd Street"},"age":25,"children":[],"firstName":"John","height_cm":167.6,"isAlive":true,"lastName":"Smith","phoneNumbers":[{"number":"212 555-1234","type":"home"},{"number":"646 555-4567","type":"office"}],"spouse":null}

RPC calling:

    $ # zero params
    $ msgpack-cli rpc localhost 8000 echo
    []
    $
    $ # single param
    $ msgpack-cli rpc localhost 8000 echo 3.159
    [3.159]
    $
    $ # multiple params (as json array)
    $ msgpack-cli rpc localhost 8000 echo '["abc", "def", "ghi", {"A": 65, "B": 66, "C": 67}]'
    ["abc","def","ghi",{"A":65,"B":66,"C":67}]
